---
title: AI Courses by Deeplearning.ai
date: 2022-06-06T09:55:46+05:30
draft: false
categories:
- "ai"
tags:
- "ai"
- "courses"
- "machinelearning"
- "deeplearning"
- "chatgpt"
---

Deeplearning.ai continuously releases new AI courses to educate and empower individuals in the field. However, these courses tend to be highly technical, making them challenging for the average user to comprehend. On their website, the courses are listed without any categorization, which can make it difficult for users to find courses that align with their interests. To address this issue, I utilized _ChatGPT_ to categorize the courses for me. Below is the categorized list of courses generated by _ChatGPT_. There are around 40 courses in total, and they are divided into three categories: Beginner, Intermediate, and Advanced. Note that the courses might be updated or removed in the future by the Deeplearning.

### Beginner
1. Getting Started with Mistral
2. Introduction to on-device AI
3. ChatGPT Prompt Engineering for Developers
4. Understanding and Applying Text Embeddings
5. Building Systems with the ChatGPT API
6. Quality and Safety for LLM Applications
7. How Business Thinkers Can Start Building AI Plugins With Semantic Kernel

### Intermediate
1. LangChain for LLM Application Development
2. AI Agents in LangGraph
3. LangChain Chat with Your Data
4. Building Generative AI Applications with Gradio
5. Evaluating and Debugging Generative AI
6. Large Language Models with Semantic Search
7. Finetuning Large Language Models
8. Pair Programming with a Large Language Model
9. Functions, Tools and Agents with LangChain
10. Vector Databases: from Embeddings to Applications
11. Building and Evaluating Advanced RAG
12. Reinforcement Learning From Human Feedback
13. Advanced Retrieval for AI with Chroma
14. Build LLM Apps with LangChain.js
15. LLMOps
16. Automated Testing for LLMOps
17. Building Applications with Vector Databases
18. Serverless LLM Apps Amazon Bedrock
19. Prompt Engineering with Llama 2&3
20. Open Source Models with Hugging Face
21. Knowledge Graphs for RAG
22. Efficiently Serving LLMs
23. Preprocessing Unstructured Data for LLM Applications
24. Prompt Engineering for Vision Models
25. Building Agentic RAG with Llamaindex
26. Building Multimodal Search and RAG

### Advanced
1. How Diffusion Models Work
2. Quantization Fundamentals
3. Quantization in Depth
4. JavaScript RAG Web Apps with LlamaIndex
5. Red Teaming LLM Applications
6. Multi AI Agent Systems with crewAI
7. AI Agentic Design Patterns with AutoGen

```js
Array.from((window.document).querySelectorAll('div.card')).map(el => el.innerText)
```

The above JavaScript code snippet was run in the browser console to get the list of courses from the DeepLearning website and later fed it to _ChatGPT_ to categorize them.

### Links
- [DeepLearning courses](https://learn.deeplearning.ai/)
- [DeepLearning community](https://community.deeplearning.ai/)
- [DeepLearning courses Q & A](https://community.deeplearning.ai/c/course-q-a/406)